DOCS-1471: Add registry use cases (#2282)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/use-cases/deploy-code.md

---
title: "Manage and deploy code versions"
linkTitle: "Manage and deploy code versions"
weight: 40
type: "docs"
weight: 30
description: "Deploy and manage module versions as public or private resources with the Viam CLI."
---

> You can upload custom modules, either as public resources accessible to all Viam users or as private modules shared exclusively within your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can support fleets composed of any kind of machine, whether proprietary or not, industrial or consumer-based.
To support these machines, you can create custom modules, either as public resources accessible to all Viam users or as private modules shared exclusively within your organization.
```

> Once uploaded, you can update and manage module versions by using the [modular registry](https://app.viam.com/registry) to ensure your modules are accessible and kept up to date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once created and uploaded, you can update and manage module versions by using the [modular registry](https://app.viam.com/registry) to ensure your modules are accessible and kept up to date.
```

This functionality is accessed through the [Viam CLI](/fleet/cli/), which provides an alternative method for module management.

For example, you might want to use the registry to contribute to collaborative projects, share modules with a select group of people, or maintain a private collection of modules designed for your machine's needs.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>{{<imgproc src="/ml/collect.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 150px" alt="ml collect icon">}}

>       <b>1. Search for a module</b>

Author: Thank you for explaining your reasoning for this so thoroughly, this is great.

    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>{{<imgproc src="/ml/configure.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 150px" declaredimensions=true alt="ml configure icon">}}
      <b>2. Create your own module</b>
      <br><br>
      <p>If you don't find a module that meets your needs, you can <a href="https://docs.viam.com/registry/create/">create your own module</a> to add support for hardware with no built-in support, or to extend an existing software service.</p>
    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>{{<imgproc src="/ml/deploy.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 150px" declaredimensions=true alt="ml deploy icon">}}
      <b>3. Deploy your module</b>
      <br><br>
      <p>Once you create your module, you can <a href="/registry/upload/">deploy it to the Viam registry</a>.</p>
      <p>You can register your module as public and extend accessibility to all Viam users, or as private and limit accessibility to users in your organization. Visit <a href="/registry/upload/#upload-a-custom-module">Upload a custom module</a> for more information.</p>

>       <p>You can easily deploy to robot or fleet directly from your robot's page in the Viam app or as a <a href="/registry/configure/#local-modules">local module</a> if desired.</p>  

Reviewer: The one other thing I'd ask us to include here is how the deployment happens. Meaning that it can be configured and, if it is not online, it will be deployed to the robot as soon as it is next online.

    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>{{<imgproc src="/ml/configure.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 150px" declaredimensions=true alt="ml configure icon">}}
      <b>4. Configure your module</b>
      <br><br>

>       <p><a href="https://docs.viam.com/registry/configure/#edit-the-configuration-of-a-module-from-the-viam-registry">Configure your module</a> and set the necessary attributes it may require.</p>
>       <p>You can also configure how your module updates itself when a new version becomes available.</p>

Reviewer 2: I like your `Once you create your module` from above, let's add a similar intro here. Also adding directt link to version update behavior configuration page:

```suggestion
      <p>Once you've deployed a module to your machine or fleet, <a href="https://docs.viam.com/registry/configure/#edit-the-configuration-of-a-module-from-the-viam-registry">configure the module</a> to set any necessary attributes it may require.</p>
      <p>You can also configure <a href="/registry/configure/#configure-version-update-management-for-a-registry-module">how a deployed module updates itself</a> when new versions of that module become available from the Viam registry.</p>
```

    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <th>{{<imgproc src="/icons/components/controller.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 150px" declaredimensions=true alt="controller icon">}}

Reviewer 2: Nit: I know I said any image, but the NES controller SVG might actually send the wrong signal (input control, etc).

I think `(assets)/services/icons/navigation.svg` or `(assets)/services/icons/motion.svg` are suitable placeholders until we get more icons designed.

      <b>5. Update your module</b>
      <br><br>

>       <p>You have the option to <a href="/registry/upload/#update-an-existing-module">update your module</a> in the registry with the latest changes.
>       This makes it easy to push changes to a fleet of machines.</p>

Reviewer 2: Nit: sneaking in GH Action direct link, with slight rephrase.

```suggestion
      <p>When you make code changes to your module, you can <a href="/registry/upload/#update-an-existing-module">update your module in the Viam registry</a> with those changes. You can also use a <a href="https://docs.viam.com/registry/upload/#update-an-existing-module-using-a-github-action">GitHub action to automate module releases</a> as part of a continuous integration (CI) release workflow.</p>
      <p>These options make it easy to push changes to a fleet of machines.</p>
```

---
title: "Manage and deploy code versions"
linkTitle: "Manage and deploy code versions"
type: "docs"
weight: 30
description: "Deploy and manage module versions as public or private resources with the Viam CLI."
---

You can extend Viam to include support for any kind of machine, whether proprietary or not, industrial or consumer-based, by creating custom {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="module" text="modules" >}}.

Once created and uploaded, you can update and manage module versions by using the [modular registry](https://app.viam.com/registry) to ensure your modules are accessible and kept up to date.

You can also add an existing module from the [Viam registry](https://app.viam.com/registry), or create your own.

With modules, it is easy to deploy code to a robot or a fleet of robots with robust control over code versioning.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>{{<imgproc src="/ml/collect.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 150px" alt="ml collect icon">}}
      <b>1. Search modules</b>
      <br><br>

>       <p>First, <a href="/fleet/machines/#add-a-new-robot">create a robot</a> if you haven't yet.</p>
>       <p><a href="/registry/configure/">Search for modules</a> that fits your robot's requirements in the Viam Registry and <a href="https://docs.viam.com/registry/configure/#add-a-modular-resource-from-the-viam-registry">add it</a> from your robot's page.</p>

Author: I see what you're saying, combining this into a single sentence could possibly help. What do you think?
```suggestion
    <p>Once you <a href="/fleet/machines/#add-a-new-robot">create a machine in the Viam app</a>, <a href="/registry/configure/">search for modules in the Viam registry</a> that fit your machine's requirements, and then <a href="/registry/configure/#add-a-modular-resource-from-the-viam-registry">add a module</a> from your machine's configuration page in the Viam app.</p>
```

    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>{{<imgproc src="/ml/configure.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 150px" declaredimensions=true alt="ml configure icon">}}
      <b>2. Create your own module</b>
      <br><br>

>       <p>If you don't find a module that meets your needs, you can <a href="https://docs.viam.com/registry/create/">create your own module</a> to add support for new hardware, or to extend an existing software service.</p>

Author: Agreed, especially in combination '"new" hardware', seems to imply the same thing in a more positive way! Thank you

    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>{{<imgproc src="/ml/deploy.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 150px" declaredimensions=true alt="ml deploy icon">}}
      <b>3. Deploy your module</b>
      <br><br>

>        <p>Once you have created your new module, you can deploy it to your machine in one of two ways:</p><br><br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       <p>Once you have created your new module, you can deploy it to your machine in one of two ways:</p><br><br><br>
```

Think we need one more for larger screens. We'll be fixing this in the near future!

>       <p>Once you create your module, you can <a href="/registry/upload/">upload</a> it to the Viam registry for deployment. You have the option to customize several aspects of your deployment experience: </p></br>
>       <ul>
>         <li>
>           Deployment Visibility: You can tailor your module's visibility by <a href="https://docs.viam.com/registry/upload/#upload-a-custom-module">uploading it to the registry</a> as either a public or private module.
>               <ul>
>                 <li>A public module is available to all Viam users.</li>
>                 <li>A private module is visible only to members of your <a href="/fleet/organizations/">organization</a>.</li>
>               </ul>
>          </li>
>       </ul>
>       <ul>
>         <li>
>         Offline Deployment: If your robot was offline when you configured the module for use, it will deploy once your machine is online.
>         </li>
>         </br>
>         <li>
>         Local Module Deployment: You can easily deploy to a robot or fleet as a <a href="/registry/configure/#local-modules">local module</a> to develop your module locally before uploading it to the Viam registry.
>         </li>
>       </ul>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>

Reviewer 2: Nit: some tweaks to layout and language:

```suggestion
      <p>Once you have created your new module, you can deploy it to your machine in one of two ways:</p><br><br>
      <ul><li>You can <a href="/registry/upload/">upload your module</a> to the Viam registry using the Viam CLI. Modules available from the Viam registry can be deployed directly to a machine or fleet of machines from the Viam app. When you upload your module to the registry, you can choose to make it:</li>
        <ul><li><b>Public:</b> your module is available to all Viam users.</li>
        <li><b>Private:</b> your module is only visible to members of your <a href="/fleet/organizations/">organization</a>. This is the default state of new modules.</li></ul></li>
      <li>You can deploy your module directly to your machine as a <a href="/registry/configure/#local-modules">local module</a>. Local modules are not uploaded to the Viam registry, and must be manually added to your machine.</li>
      </ul>
      <p> If your machine is offline when you deploy a module, it will deploy once your machine comes back online.</p>
    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
```

Here I try to:
- Avoid UL breaks due to image align wrapping 😅  - not a perfect solution, but we'll be revisiting use case page layout consistency in the near future, so OK for now IMO.
- Stress: two methods of deploy, with pub/priv being second order considerations, scoped only to one method. Previously, Offline deploy seemed like an alternative to Local, etc.
- Briefly mention the CLI, but not linked (we want users to click through to the `upload` steps, which fully document everything the user needs to know about CLI but scoped to module stuff only. Bare CLI link might confuse when the user lands on "how to upload your data CLI steps here" for example.

    <th>{{<imgproc src="/ml/configure.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 150px" declaredimensions=true alt="ml deploy icon">}}
      <b>4. Configure your module
      <br><br>
      <p>Once you've deployed a module to your robot or fleet, <a href="https://docs.viam.com/registry/configure/#edit-the-configuration-of-a-module-from-the-viam-registry">configure the module</a> to set any necessary attributes it may require.</p>

>       <p>You can also configure <a href="/registry/configure/#configure-version-update-management-for-a-registry-module">how a deployed module updates itself</a> when new versions of that module become available from the Viam registry.</p>

Reviewer 2: Opt: just offering an example of the three ways of managing the deployment of code updates:

```suggestion
      <p>You can also configure <a href="/registry/configure/#configure-version-update-management-for-a-registry-module">how a deployed module updates itself</a> when new versions of that module become available from the Viam registry.  You can chose to always update to the latest version as soon as it becomes available, pin to a specific code revision and never update, or upgrade only within a specified version major or minor version.</p>
```

For some users, this is the copy they have been waiting for: deploy-on-update control.

    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>{{<imgproc src="/build/configure/services/icons/motion.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 150px" declaredimensions=true alt="controller icon">}}
      <b>5. Update your module</b>
      <br><br>

>       <p>When you make code changes to your module, you can <a href="/registry/upload/#update-an-existing-module">update your module</a> with those changes. You can also use a <a href="/registry/upload/#update-an-existing-module-using-a-github-action">GitHub action to automate module releases</a> as part of a continuous integration (CI) workflow.</p>

Reviewer 2: Nit: just ensuring CLI is in here somewhere.

```suggestion
      <p>When you make code changes to your module, you can <a href="/registry/upload/#update-an-existing-module">update your module</a> with those changes using the Viam CLI. You can also use a <a href="/registry/upload/#update-an-existing-module-using-a-github-action">GitHub action to automate module releases</a> as part of a continuous integration (CI) workflow.</p>
```
